CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Welcome!

Contributions are very welcome on Karapace. When contributing please keep this in mind:

- Open an issue to discuss new bigger features.
- Write code consistent with the project style and make sure the tests are passing.
- Stay in touch with us if we have follow up questions or requests for further changes.

# Development

## Local Environment

There is very little you need to get started coding for Karapace:

- Use [one of the supported python versions](https://github.com/aiven/karapace/blob/master/setup.py)
  documented in the `setup.py` classifiers.
- Create [a virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html) and install the dev dependencies in it:

```python
python -m venv <path_to_venv>
source <path_to_venv>/bin/activate
pip install -r ./requirements-dev.txt
pip install -e .
```

## Tests

Tests are written with the [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/) framework, and All PRs are tested for
each supported Python version using [GitHub Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/).

There are two flavors of tests, unit tests and integration tests:

- Unit: These are faster and very useful for quick iterations. They are usually testing pure
  functions.
- Integration: Are slower but more complete. These tests run Karapace, ZooKeeper, and Kafka servers,
  pytest's fixtures are used to start/stop these for you.

Both flavors run in parallel using [pytest-xdist](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest-xdist). New
tests should be engineered with this in mind:

- Don't reuse schema/subject/topic names
- Expect other clients to be interacting with the servers at the same time.

Before running the tests make sure you have `protoc` installed. `protoc` is part of the protobuf-compiler package.
In Fedora® distributions you can install it using:
```
dnf install protobuf-compiler
```

To run the tests use the binary `pytest` available in the virtualenv. It will download Kafka to be
used in the tests for you:

```sh
make karapace/version.py
pytest tests/unit
pytest tests/integration
```

The integration tests can be configured with the use of a few parameters:

- `--kafka-version`: allows to change the version of the Kafka server used by the tests. Example
    versions: `2.7.2`, `2.8.1`, `3.0.0`.
- `--kafka-bootstrap-servers`: A comma separated list of servers. This option allows to use an
    external server (the tests won't start a server for you)

Other options can be seen with `pytest test/integration --help`

## Static checking and Linting

The code is statically checked and formatted using [a few
tools](https://github.com/aiven/karapace/blob/master/requirements-dev.txt). To run these
automatically on each commit please enable the [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com) hooks.

## Manual testing

To use your development code, you need to set up a Kafka server and run Karapace from you
virtual environment:

```
docker-compose -f ./container/docker-compose.yml up -d kafka
karapace karapace.config.json
```

### Configuration

To see descriptions of configuration keys see our
[README](https://github.com/aiven/karapace#configuration-keys).

Each configuration key can be overridden with an environment variable prefixed with `KARAPACE_`,
exception being configuration keys that actually start with the `karapace` string. For example, to
override the `bootstrap_uri` config value, one would use the environment variable
`KARAPACE_BOOTSTRAP_URI`.

# Opening a PR

- Commit messages should describe the changes, not the filenames. Win our admiration by following
  the [excellent advice from Chris Beams](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) when composing
  commit messages.
- Choose a meaningful title for your pull request.
- The pull request description should focus on what changed and why.
- Check that the tests pass (and add test coverage for your changes if appropriate).

## Trademarks:
Fedora and the Infinity design logo are trademarks of Red Hat, Inc.

Commit message:

Add information about website documentation to global CONTRIBUTING file

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Welcome!

Contributions are very welcome on Karapace. When contributing please keep this in mind:

- Open an issue to discuss new bigger features.
- Write code consistent with the project style and make sure the tests are passing.
- Stay in touch with us if we have follow up questions or requests for further changes.

# Development

## Local Environment

There is very little you need to get started coding for Karapace:

- Use [one of the supported python versions](https://github.com/aiven/karapace/blob/master/setup.py)
  documented in the `setup.py` classifiers.
- Create [a virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html) and install the dev dependencies in it:

```python
python -m venv <path_to_venv>
source <path_to_venv>/bin/activate
pip install -r ./requirements-dev.txt
pip install -e .
```

##Website

Karapace documentation is part of this GitHub repository. You can find it in `website` folder. Its `README` file contains instructions explaining how you can run documentation website locally. 

## Tests

Tests are written with the [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/) framework, and All PRs are tested for
each supported Python version using [GitHub Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/).

There are two flavors of tests, unit tests and integration tests:

- Unit: These are faster and very useful for quick iterations. They are usually testing pure
  functions.
- Integration: Are slower but more complete. These tests run Karapace, ZooKeeper, and Kafka servers,
  pytest's fixtures are used to start/stop these for you.

Both flavors run in parallel using [pytest-xdist](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest-xdist). New
tests should be engineered with this in mind:

- Don't reuse schema/subject/topic names
- Expect other clients to be interacting with the servers at the same time.

Before running the tests make sure you have `protoc` installed. `protoc` is part of the protobuf-compiler package.
In Fedora® distributions you can install it using:
```
dnf install protobuf-compiler
```

To run the tests use the binary `pytest` available in the virtualenv. It will download Kafka to be
used in the tests for you:

```sh
make karapace/version.py
pytest tests/unit
pytest tests/integration
```

The integration tests can be configured with the use of a few parameters:

- `--kafka-version`: allows to change the version of the Kafka server used by the tests. Example
    versions: `2.7.2`, `2.8.1`, `3.0.0`.
- `--kafka-bootstrap-servers`: A comma separated list of servers. This option allows to use an
    external server (the tests won't start a server for you)

Other options can be seen with `pytest test/integration --help`

## Static checking and Linting

The code is statically checked and formatted using [a few
tools](https://github.com/aiven/karapace/blob/master/requirements-dev.txt). To run these
automatically on each commit please enable the [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com) hooks.

## Manual testing

To use your development code, you need to set up a Kafka server and run Karapace from you
virtual environment:

```
docker-compose -f ./container/docker-compose.yml up -d kafka
karapace karapace.config.json
```

### Configuration

To see descriptions of configuration keys see our
[README](https://github.com/aiven/karapace#configuration-keys).

Each configuration key can be overridden with an environment variable prefixed with `KARAPACE_`,
exception being configuration keys that actually start with the `karapace` string. For example, to
override the `bootstrap_uri` config value, one would use the environment variable
`KARAPACE_BOOTSTRAP_URI`.

# Opening a PR

- Commit messages should describe the changes, not the filenames. Win our admiration by following
  the [excellent advice from Chris Beams](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) when composing
  commit messages.
- Choose a meaningful title for your pull request.
- The pull request description should focus on what changed and why.
- Check that the tests pass (and add test coverage for your changes if appropriate).

## Trademarks:
Fedora and the Infinity design logo are trademarks of Red Hat, Inc.
